Move "Building a device for WebUSB" from WebFu to web.dev (#4240)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/build-for-webusb/index.md

so that the host finds out the value of the `wTotalLength` field without
committing to a large transfer and then again now that the full descriptor
length is known.

If the WebUSB Platform Capability descriptor has the `iLandingPage` field set to
a non-zero value the browser then performs a WebUSB-specific `GET_URL` request
by issuing a control transfer with the `bRequest` set to the `bVendorCode` value
from the platform capability descriptor and `wValue` set to the `iLandingPage`
value. The request code for `GET_URL` (`0x02`) goes in `wIndex`:

<div class="w-table-wrapper">
  <table>
    <tr>
    <th>bmRequestType</th>
    <th>bRequest</th>
    <th>wValue</th>
    <th>wIndex</th>
    <th>wLength</th>
    <th>Data (response)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0b11000000</code></td>
    <td><code>0x01</code></td>
    <td><code>0x0001</code></td>
    <td><code>0x0002</code></td>
    <td>*</td>
    <td>The URL descriptor</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

Again, this request may be issued twice in order to first probe for the length
of the descriptor being read.

{% Aside %}
Support for displaying a notification when a USB device is plugged in is not

> available yet on Android.

Author: @reillyeon Do you confirm Windows is now supported in Chrome 87 (stable)?

Reviewer: Yes.

[Standard.NTamd64]
%USB\MyCustomDevice.DeviceDesc% = USB_Install,USB\VID_XXXX&PID_XXXX

; ========== Class definition ===========

[ClassInstall32]
AddReg = ClassInstall_AddReg

[ClassInstall_AddReg]
HKR,,,,%ClassName%
HKR,,NoInstallClass,,1
HKR,,IconPath,%REG_MULTI_SZ%,"%systemroot%\system32\setupapi.dll,-20"
HKR,,LowerLogoVersion,,5.2

; =================== Installation ===================

[USB_Install]
Include = winusb.inf
Needs   = WINUSB.NT

[USB_Install.Services]
Include = winusb.inf
Needs   = WINUSB.NT.Services

[USB_Install.HW]
AddReg = Dev_AddReg

[Dev_AddReg]
HKR,,DeviceInterfaceGUIDs,0x10000,"{XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX}"

; =================== Strings ===================

[Strings]
ManufacturerName              = "Your Company Name Here"
ClassName                     = "Your Company Devices"
USB\MyCustomDevice.DeviceDesc = "Your Device Name Here"
```

The `[Dev_AddReg]` section configures the set of DeviceInterfaceGUIDs for the
device. Every device interface must have a GUID in order for an application to
find and connect to it through the Windows API. Use the `New-Guid` PowerShell
cmdlet or an online tool to generate a random GUID.

> 

Reviewer: "For development purposes the [Zadig tool](https://zadig.akeo.ie/) provides an easy interface for replacing the driver loaded for a USB interface with the WinUSB driver."

Author: Done in https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/4240/commits/72c864368e12ee579d59eb241442c8a604f8d4a3

---
title: Building a device for WebUSB
subhead: | 
  Build a device to take full advantage of the WebUSB API.
authors:
  - reillyg
date: 2018-12-20
updated: 2020-11-17
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - capabilities
  - devices
---

This article explains how to build a device to take full advantage of the

> [WebUSB API]. For a brief introduction to the API itself see [this previous

Author: Done.

> article].

Author: Done.

specification (a "class driver") and any device implementing that class will be
supported. This was a great improvement over every manufacturer needing to write
their own device drivers.

Some devices however don't fit into one of these standardized device classes. A
manufacturer may instead choose to label their device as implementing the
vendor-specific class. In this case the operating system chooses which device
driver to load based on information provided in the vendor's driver package,
typically a set of vendor and product IDs which are known to implement a
particular vendor-specific protocol.

Another feature of the USB is that devices may provide multiple interfaces to
the host they are connected to. Each interface can implement either a
standardized class or be vendor-specific. When an operating system chooses the
right drivers to handle the device each interface can be claimed by a different
driver. For example, a USB webcam typically provides two interfaces, one
implementing the USB video class (for the camera) and one implementing the USB
audio class (for the microphone). The operating system does not load a single

> "webcam driver" but instead independent video and audio class drivers which take

Author: Done.

responsibility for the separate functions of the device. This composition of
interface classes provides for greater flexibility.

> ## Introduction

Author: Fixed.

Many of the standard USB classes have corresponding web APIs. For example, a
page can capture video from a video class device using [`getUserMedia()`]
or receive input events from a human interface (HID) class device by listening

> for [KeyboardEvents] or [PointerEvents], or using the [Gamepad] or the [WebHID]

Author: Done.

API.

> Just as not all devices implement a standardized class definition not all

Author: Done

    <td><code>0x0040</code></td>
    <td>wMaxPacketSize</td>
    <td>64 byte packets</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x00</code></td>
    <td>bInterval</td>
    <td>N/A for bulk endpoints</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td colspan="3">Endpoint descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x07</code></td>
    <td>bLength</td>
    <td>Size of this descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x05</code></td>
    <td>bDescriptorType</td>
    <td>Endpoint descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0b00000011</code></td>
    <td>bEndpointAddress</td>
    <td>Endpoint 3 (OUT)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0b00000010</code></td>
    <td>bmAttributes</td>
    <td>Bulk</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x0040</code></td>
    <td>wMaxPacketSize</td>
    <td>64 byte packets</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x00</code></td>
    <td>bInterval</td>
    <td>N/A for bulk endpoints</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

{% Aside  %}
Values in this and other tables in this document are presented in hexadecimal or
binary, whichever is more readable. The USB is a little-endian bus and so any
integer value larger than 1 byte should be sent least-significant byte first.

> {% endAside %}

Author: Done.

The configuration descriptor consists of multiple descriptors concatenated
together. Each begins with `bLength` and `bDescriptorType` fields so that they
can be identified. The first interface is an HID interface with an associated
HID descriptor and a single endpoint used to deliver input events to the
operating system. The second interface is a vendor-specific interface with two
endpoints that can be used to send commands to the device and receive responses
in return.

## WebUSB descriptors

> While WebUSB can work with many devices without firmware modifications however

Author: Done

    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td colspan="3">WebUSB platform capability descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x18</code></td>
    <td>bLength</td>
    <td>Size of this descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x10</code></td>
    <td>bDescriptorType</td>
    <td>Device capability descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x05</code></td>
    <td>bDevCapabilityType</td>
    <td>Platform capability descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x00</code></td>
    <td>bReserved</td>
    <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>{0x38, 0xB6, 0x08, 0x34, 0xA9, 0x09, 0xA0, 0x47, 0x8B, 0xFD, 0xA0, 0x76, 0x88, 0x15, 0xB6, 0x65}</code></td>
    <td>PlatformCapablityUUID</td>
    <td>WebUSB platform capability descriptor GUID in little-endian format</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x0100</code></td>
    <td>bcdVersion</td>
    <td>WebUSB descriptor version 1.0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x01</code></td>
    <td>bVendorCode</td>
    <td>bRequest value for WebUSB</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x01</code></td>
    <td>iLandingPage</td>
    <td>URL for landing page</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

{% Aside %}

> The UUID above would be written as `{3408b638-09a9-47a0-8bfd-a0768815b665}`

Author: Done.

> however when sent as part of a USB descriptor its component fields must be sent

Author: Done

in little-endian order. This transformation is complex so the proper encoding is
given here for reference. See [RFC4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122).
{% endAside %}

The platform capability UUID identifies this as a [WebUSB Platform Capability
descriptor], which provides basic information about the device. For the browser
to fetch more information about the device it uses the `bVendorCode` value to
issue additional requests to the device. The only request currently specified is
`GET_URL` which returns a [URL descriptor].

> These are similar to string descriptors however are designed to encode URLs in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are similar to string descriptors but are designed to encode URLs in
```

Reviewer 2: Is line 487 meant to continue the previous paragraph or start a new one?

Author: Done. It wasn't a separate paragraph in https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/native-hardware/build-for-webusb

    <td colspan="3">URL descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x0D</code></td>
    <td>bLength</td>
    <td>Size of this descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x03</code></td>
    <td>bDescriptorType</td>
    <td>URL descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x01</code></td>
    <td>bScheme</td>
    <td>https://</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>"google.com"</code></td>
    <td>URL</td>
    <td>UTF-8 encoded URL content</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

When your device is first plugged in the browser reads the BOS descriptor by
issuing this standard `GET_DESCRIPTOR` control transfer:

<div class="w-table-wrapper">
  <table>
    <tr>
    <th>bmRequestType</th>
    <th>bRequest</th>
    <th>wValue</th>
    <th>wIndex</th>
    <th>wLength</th>
    <th>Data (response)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0b10000000</code></td>
    <td><code>0x06</code></td>
    <td><code>0x0F00</code></td>
    <td><code>0x0000</code></td>
    <td>*</td>
    <td>The BOS descriptor</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

This request is usually made twice, the first time with a large enough `wLength`
so that the host finds out the value of the `wTotalLength` field without

> committing to a large transfer and then again now that the full descriptor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
committing to a large transfer and then again when the full descriptor
```

a non-zero value the browser then performs a WebUSB-specific `GET_URL` request
by issuing a control transfer with the `bRequest` set to the `bVendorCode` value
from the platform capability descriptor and `wValue` set to the `iLandingPage`
value. The request code for `GET_URL` (`0x02`) goes in `wIndex`:

<div class="w-table-wrapper">
  <table>
    <tr>
    <th>bmRequestType</th>
    <th>bRequest</th>
    <th>wValue</th>
    <th>wIndex</th>
    <th>wLength</th>
    <th>Data (response)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0b11000000</code></td>
    <td><code>0x01</code></td>
    <td><code>0x0001</code></td>
    <td><code>0x0002</code></td>
    <td>*</td>
    <td>The URL descriptor</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

Again, this request may be issued twice in order to first probe for the length
of the descriptor being read.

{% Aside %}
Support for displaying a notification when a USB device is plugged in is not
available yet on Android.
{% endAside %}

## Platform-specific considerations

While the WebUSB API attempts to provide a consistent interface for accessing
USB devices developers should still be aware of requirements imposed on

> applications such as a web browsers in order to access devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
applications such as a web browsers requirements in order to access devices.
```

Author: Done

### macOS

Nothing special is necessary for macOS. A website using WebUSB can connect to

> the device and claim interfaces any interfaces that aren't claimed by a kernel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the device and claim any interfaces that aren't claimed by a kernel
```

Author: Done

driver or another application.

### Linux

> Linux is like macOS however by default most distributions do not set up user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Linux is like macOS but by default most distributions do not set up user
```

Author: Done

accounts with permission to open USB devices. A system daemon called udev is
responsible for assigning the user and group allowed to access a device. A rule
such as this will assign ownership of a device matching the given vendor and
product IDs to the `plugdev` group which is a common group for users with access
to peripherals:

```vim
SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTR{idVendor}=="XXXX", ATTR{idProduct}=="XXXX", GROUP="plugdev"
```

Replace `XXXX` with the hexadecimal vendor and product IDs for your device,
e.g. `ATTR{idVendor}=="18d1", ATTR{idProduct}=="4e11"` would match a Nexus One
phone. These must be written without the usual "0x" prefix and all lowercase
to be recognized correctly. To find the IDs for your device run the command line
tool `lsusb`.

This rule should be placed in a file in the `/etc/udev/rules.d` directory and

> takes effect as soon as the device is plugged in. No need to restart udev.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
takes effect as soon as the device is plugged in. There is no need to restart udev.
```

Author: Done

### Android

The Android platform is based on Linux but does not require any modification to
system configuration. By default any device which does not have a driver is
accessible to the browser as long as the user acknowledges a permission prompt.
This is an additional step that occurs when the application calls [`open()`] on

> a device and must be repeated every time the browser reloads. In addition more

Reviewer 2: Is open() the only thing that repeats or is the permission prompt repeated too?

Author: Permission prompt is not repeated.

Reviewer 2: I think I asked the wrong question. What is `open()` an additional step to?

Author: @reillyeon Can you reply to https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/4240/files/450faaa540081e3e85ab8e9a4e6eb73da93e2288#r532708188?

Author: If I understand correctly, Reilly was talking about an operating system permission prompt, not the browser prompt that happens only on Android when `open()` is called.

Reviewer: The developer does not need to take any additional steps. The difference between Android and other platforms is that the operating system will display a prompt asking the user to allow Chrome to access the device after the user dismisses the device selection prompt shown by `requestDevice()` and when `open()` is called. This prompt only appears once per device per session so if the developer calls `open()` immediately after `requestDevice()` the user will only see it once. The user will see it again when `open()` is called in a new session for devices the site has previously been granted permission to access because Android does not remember the permission decision the way Chrome does.

Note, due to changes in Android 10 and later Chrome cannot remember USB permissions correctly either.

Reviewer 2: Can one of you please rewrite the paragraph to accurately describes what's happening?

Author: How about simply adding "operating system" before "permission prompt"?

Reviewer 2: That's a good start. Also remove the bit about `open()` being an additional step. As Reilly said, it's not an additional step.

Reviewer: The text doesn't say that `open()` is an additional step. It says, "This is an additional step that occurs when the application calls `open()`".

Reviewer: Is this clearer,

> By default any device which doesn't have a driver built into the operating system is available to the browser. Developers should be aware however that users will encounter an additional step when connecting to the device. Once the users selects a device in response to a call to `requestDevice()` Android will display an prompt asking whether to allow Chrome to access it. This prompt also reappears if the user returns to a site which already has permission to connect to a device and the site calls `open()`.

Author: I've updated paragraph with Reilly's suggestion at https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/4240/commits/b4505a6726c89d2f4bf4b12c8d6e8e79c298755e.

HKR,,LowerLogoVersion,,5.2

; =================== Installation ===================

[USB_Install]
Include = winusb.inf
Needs   = WINUSB.NT

[USB_Install.Services]
Include = winusb.inf
Needs   = WINUSB.NT.Services

[USB_Install.HW]
AddReg = Dev_AddReg

[Dev_AddReg]
HKR,,DeviceInterfaceGUIDs,0x10000,"{XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX}"

; =================== Strings ===================

[Strings]
ManufacturerName              = "Your Company Name Here"
ClassName                     = "Your Company Devices"
USB\MyCustomDevice.DeviceDesc = "Your Device Name Here"
```

The `[Dev_AddReg]` section configures the set of DeviceInterfaceGUIDs for the
device. Every device interface must have a GUID in order for an application to
find and connect to it through the Windows API. Use the `New-Guid` PowerShell
cmdlet or an online tool to generate a random GUID.

For development purposes the [Zadig tool] provides an easy interface for
replacing the driver loaded for a USB interface with the WinUSB driver.

#### Microsoft OS compatibility descriptors

The INF file approach above is cumbersome because it requires configuring every

> user's machine ahead of time. Windows 8.1 and higher offer an alternative

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
user's machine ahead of time. Windows 8.1 and higher offers an alternative
```

Author: Done

    <td><code>0x10</code></td>
    <td>bDescriptorType</td>
    <td>Device capability descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x05</code></td>
    <td>bDevCapabilityType</td>
    <td>Platform capability descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x00</code></td>
    <td>bReserved</td>
    <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>{0xDF, 0x60, 0xDD, 0xD8, 0x89, 0x45, 0xC7, 0x4C, 0x9C, 0xD2, 0x65, 0x9D, 0x9E, 0x64, 0x8A, 0x9F}</code></td>
    <td>PlatformCapablityUUID</td>
    <td>Microsoft OS 2.0 platform compatibility descriptor GUID in little-endian format</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x06030000</code></td>
    <td>dwWindowsVersion</td>
    <td>Minimum compatible Windows version (Windows 8.1)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x00B2</code></td>
    <td>wMSOSDescriptorSetTotalLength</td>
    <td>Total length of the descriptor set</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x02</code></td>
    <td>bMS_VendorCode</td>
    <td>bRequest value for retrieving further Microsoft descriptors </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x00</code></td>
    <td>bAltEnumCode</td>
    <td>Device does not support alternate enumeration</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

> As with the WebUSB descriptors we have to pick a `bRequest` value to be used by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As with the WebUSB descriptors you have to pick a `bRequest` value to be used by
```

Author: Done

> control transfers related to these descriptors. In this example we've picked

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
control transfers related to these descriptors. In this example I've picked
```

Author: Done

    <td colspan="3">Microsoft OS 2.0 registry property descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x0084</code></td>
    <td>wLength</td>
    <td>Size of this descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x0004</code></td>
    <td>wDescriptorType</td>
    <td>Registry property descriptor</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x0007</code></td>
    <td>wPropertyDataType</td>
    <td>REG_MULTI_SZ</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x002A</code></td>
    <td>wPropertyNameLength</td>
    <td>Length of the property name</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>"DeviceInterfaceGUIDs\0"</code></td>
    <td>PropertyName</td>
    <td>Property name with null terminator encoded in UTF-16LE</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>0x0050</code></td>
    <td>wPropertyDataLength</td>
    <td>Length of the property value</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><code>"{XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX}\0\0"</code></td>
    <td>PropertyData</td>
    <td>GUID plus two null terminators encoded in UTF-16LE</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

Windows will only query the device for this information once. If the device does
not respond with valid descriptors it will not ask again the next time the

> device is connected. This [page] describes the registry entries created when

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
device is connected. Microsoft has provided [a list of USB Device Registry Entries]
describing the registry entries created when
```

Author: Done

> enumerating a device. When testing it is useful to delete the entries created
> for a device in order to get Windows to try to read the descriptors again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enumerating a device. When testing delete the entries created
for a device to force Windows to read the descriptors again.
```

Author: Done

For more information check out Microsoft's [blog post] on how to use these
descriptors.

## Examples

Example code implementing WebUSB-aware devices that include both WebUSB
descriptors and Microsoft OS descriptors can be found in these projects:

 * [WebLight]
 * [WebUSB Arduino Library]

[WebUSB API]: https://wicg.github.io/webusb
[this previous article]: /usb
[`getUserMedia()`]: https://html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/getusermedia/intro/
[KeyboardEvents]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/KeyboardEvent
[PointerEvents]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Pointer_events
[Gamepad]: /gamepad
[WebHID]: /hid
[WebUSB Platform Capability descriptor]: https://wicg.github.io/webusb/#webusb-platform-capability-descriptor
[URL descriptor]: https://wicg.github.io/webusb/#url-descriptor
[Zadig tool]: https://zadig.akeo.ie/
[`open()`]: https://wicg.github.io/webusb/#dom-usbdevice-open

> [page]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/usbcon/usb-device-specific-registry-settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[a list of USB Device Registry Entries]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/usbcon/usb-device-specific-registry-settings
```

Author: Done

the device and claim any interfaces that aren't claimed by a kernel driver or
another application.

### Linux

Linux is like macOS but by default most distributions do not set up user
accounts with permission to open USB devices. A system daemon called udev is
responsible for assigning the user and group allowed to access a device. A rule
such as this will assign ownership of a device matching the given vendor and
product IDs to the `plugdev` group which is a common group for users with access
to peripherals:

```vim
SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTR{idVendor}=="XXXX", ATTR{idProduct}=="XXXX", GROUP="plugdev"
```

Replace `XXXX` with the hexadecimal vendor and product IDs for your device,
e.g. `ATTR{idVendor}=="18d1", ATTR{idProduct}=="4e11"` would match a Nexus One
phone. These must be written without the usual "0x" prefix and all lowercase
to be recognized correctly. To find the IDs for your device run the command line
tool `lsusb`.

This rule should be placed in a file in the `/etc/udev/rules.d` directory and
takes effect as soon as the device is plugged in. There is no need to restart
udev.

### Android

The Android platform is based on Linux but does not require any modification to

> system configuration. By default any device which does not have a driver built

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
system configuration. By default any device that does not have a driver built
```

Author: Fixed.

into the operating system is available to the browser. Developers should be
aware however that users will encounter an additional step when connecting to

> the device. Once the users selects a device in response to a call to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the device. Once a user selects a device in response to a call to
```

Author: Fixed.

[`requestDevice()`], Android will display a prompt asking whether to allow

> Chrome to access it. This prompt also reappears if the user returns to a website

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Chrome to access it. This prompt also reappears if a user returns to a website
```

Author: Fixed.

> which already has permission to connect to a device and the website calls

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that already has permission to connect to a device and the website calls
```

Author: Fixed.
